# STAT230
Data Analysis/Exploration Final Project completed with Kat Berman

The Rmarkdown file is the final project for my Data Analysis and Exploration class. I completed this project with a fellow student Kat Berman. The goal of the project was to acquire, clean, and explore the data, then do some general analysis.

## Introduction to the Project:
Recent studies in political science have used a gendered political theory lense to suggest a correlation between increased female participation in traditionally male sectors, such as agriculture, economics, and government, with more environmentally friendly carbon emissions. (United Nations Development Program, “Overview of linkages between gender and climate change," 2013).  In addition, recent articles in political science have also suggested a relationship between increased democratization and gender equality (Valentine M. Moghdam, “The Gender of Democracy: The Link Between Women's Rights and Democratization in the Middle East,” 2008).  Based on this information, we were interested in further exploring this correlation and developing our understanding of the relationship between gender equality and other indicator values for countries around the world.  In this project, we decided to compare the gender equality index for countries to their data on female participation in the agricultural sector, carbon emissions data, country GDP, democracy level, and region of the world. Some of the data was acquired via download from the Food and Agroculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Other data was scrapped from tables on Wikipedia. More detailed descriptiongs of the step-by-step process of analyzing the data is available in the Rmarkdown file itself.

Additional files in this repository are the downloaded data files from the FAO and the knitted PDF of the Rmarkdown file.
